---
layout: post
title: Highland Park 12 - Part 1
date: 2018-01-21
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Island, Highland Park 12]
---

Whisky Bob starting things off here with a week of daily Highland Park 12. Highland Park is the northernmost Scottish Distillery on the Orkney archipelago. Their whiskys are renowned for their complex flavor profiles that touch on all the Scottish regions. They recently rebranded with a bunch of extraneous Viking crap and have a ton of strangely named expensive no age statement releases. I picked up an older non-Viking 750 mL bottle of their standard 12 year release in suburban Boston for $43.

Drinking neat in a Glencairn.
Color: medium deep amber.
Nose: sweetness. Lots of sweetness. Surgary. Some sour notes. Alcohol burn when I stick my nose way into the glass (note - duh!)

There's a decent amount of smokiness in the mough. The finish is dry on the tongue. The smokiness lingers in my mouth, kicks off its boots and hangs out awhile. It's not as overpowering as an Islay and is altogether different in character. There's a nice sweetness here, too. Floral notes - this might be the "heather" from the tasting notes but I can't relate to that term. Breathing in air tickles my mouth and brings a numbing sensation. I breathe in and out through my mouth and taste sweetness in the back of my mouth. I close my mouth and the smokey flavors take over.

I let it sit awhile and come back. More brown sugar on the nose. More honey flavoring than before. There's still that lasting smoke and dryness on the finish. I take the last sip straight down the throat over my tongue and get a lot more smoke. This is complex stuff yet the flavors appear at random and seem very disjointed. I look forward to spending the week with this fella.

Whisky Bob signing off.
