---
layout: post
title: You Spey, I Spey - Part 1
date: 2018-02-12
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Speyside, Aberlour A'bunadh 60]
---

Speyside has the largest concentration of Scotland's distillers and seems to have just as many styles. I was fortunate enough to grab a good deal on one famous bottle and pickup a handful of Speyside samplers. This should keep me busy for a couple weeks. First up, that famous bottle:

### Aberlour A'bunadh

Quick facts:
* Batch #60
* 60.3% ABV
* Paid $70 for 750 mL bottle
* Prorated to $2.33/25mL, $1.40/15mL
* [Official Website](http://www.aberlour.com/us/range/aberlour-abunadh/)
* Matured exclusively in Oloroso sherry casks. Bottled at cask strength

This scotch has held an almost mystical place in my mind since starting this whisky journey. Years ago a buddy described it as the best scotch he ever had. The name is strange and foreign and conjures an image of exotic flavors.

How is it in reality? I poured a nice 25 mL portion neat into a Glencairn.

Color: The reddest whisky I've yet encountered. Not sure if it's natural
Nose: Holy cherry and alcohol, Batman! It took a few sniffs to get through the 60% alcohol but then a wonderful dark red stone fruit aroma came to the front. There's a lot more going on here but I can't quite make it out yet.
Taste: This is thick. I get an explosion of fruit flavors. The high alcohol content numbs as I swish it through my mouth.
Finish: Dry, cherry candy. Hot damn! This tastes just like [Haribo Twin Cherries](https://www.amazon.com/Haribo-Gummi-Candy-Happy-Cherries/dp/B000EVT04M?th=1). There's an intial unpleasant waxiness to the finish that goes away after a couple more sips.

This is one big bold sherry bomb. It's the complete opposite of the smoky, complex Lagavulin. I drink whisky to experience new things like this.

Water helps open up some more flavors but I can't quite wrap my head around it all just yet. Good thing there's almost a full bottle left to explore...

Whisky Bob signing off.
