---
layout: post
title: Sampling Ireland - Part 4
date: 2018-02-10
category: blog
tags: [Irish, Jameson, Redbreast 12]
---

I have a number of guiding principles in undertaking this whiskey quest:

1. Gain a deeper appreciation for all styles of whisk(e)y
2. Write every day
3. Never use terminology I don't understand
4. Learn from others and expand my terminology after my initial impression
5. Drink every day with rare exception
6. Stick to 30 - 50 mL intake every day with rare exception
7. Stick with my current drinking plan (even when I just want to drink Lagavulin)

To address point 7, yes, I really want some Lagavulin... but it's time to finish up this tiny bottle of Jameson. I'm going to drink it tonight along with its Midleton distillery stablemate Redbreast 12.

To address points 3 and 4, I've formed my initial impressions over the last few days. There is some common something-or-other that links all these Irish whiskeys together but I can't quite describe it. Fortunately, the magnificent bastards over at the Whiskey Vault are here to help:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/I6stmin_260" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

To summarize their notes:

### Redbreast 12

* They call this the quintessential Irish whiskey
* Nose: Butter with honey like a biscuit (I feel you, Rex). Daniel calls this out as the classical note you'll experience with evenry Irish whiskey distilled with the single pot still process. The process uses a mix of malted and unmalted barley.
* This expression was finished in [Oloroso sherry casks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oloroso) that impart some darker fruit notes.
* Rex: "This reminds me of a more complex Jameson"
* Rex thinks this is better than Green Spot. Daniel thinks Green Spot is better.

### Jameson

* Harsher on the nose but with green apples. Spice and bright and flashy.

### Green Spot (I unfortunately don't have any to compare)

* Brighter and lighter with saltwater and coconut
* Daniel: "Magical coconut note"

### My revised takes

I love the honey butter biscuit note. That does a pretty good job of describing what I've experienced as the quintessential Irish flavor. It's creamy and a little sweet and chewy.

Describing Redbreast 12 as a more complex Jameson matches up exactly with my initial impressions and I stick to it. I get a lot more alcohol burn from the Jameson despite them both being at 40% ABV. I'm not quite picking up the fruit notes they talk about in the Redbreast but detect an overall sweetness.

I'll be back tomorrow to wrap up this short sampling of Ireland.

Whiskey Bob signing off.
