---
layout: post
title: You Spey, I Spey - Part 2
date: 2018-02-13
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Speyside, Macallan 12, Macallan Double Cask 12]
---

I lucked into 50 mL samples of *The* Macallan 12 Year Sherry Cask and 12 Year Double Cask. These are classy samplers that come with their own box. That's probably why they cost so much more than the Jack samples I'll get to when I venture stateside.

I had a Macallan 12 sherry expression years ago and it didn't leave much of an impression. I'm not looking at any tasting notes before trying these this time. All I know is that the "The" ahead of Macallan is stupid and I'm not going to write it any more. And that these are Speyside, keeping with my theme and going against my desire to drink Lagavulin.

### Macallan 12 - Sherry Cask

* 43% ABV
* Matured in Sherry Oak casks from Jerez, Spain
* $8.49/50mL -> $2.55/15mL pour

My take:

* Nose: more intense sherry than the Double Cask. It smells nice and sweet and rounded. Fruit notes along with some vanilla and wood notes. Nowhere near as intense as the A'bunadh yesterday. I detect more sherry the longer I sit with it and compare it to the Double Cask.
* Taste: Nice and light in the mouth. Not much numbing. I get general sherry notes.
* Finish: rather short. Mostly sherry notes.  

### Macallan 12 - Double Cask

* 43% ABV
* Matured in Sherry seasoned American and European Oak casks
* $8.99/50mL -> $2.70/15mL pour

My take:

* Nose: Smells about the same as the sherry version, just a little less intense. I get a bit more darker woody notes after letting it sit a bit. i
* Taste: There's more going on here than the Sherry version. More woodiness with some sherry undertones. A bit more numbing. I detect more wood the longer I sit with it. There's a bit more of an alcohol hit here than with the sherry.
* Finish: The sherry comes out in a nice sweet finish. The finish is more memorable here - not sure if it actually lasts longer or if the reveal of sweetness adds a nice dimension to the dram.

### Conclusions

The relationship between these two reminds me a lot of the relationship between Bushmills Original and Jameson standard - the bushmills was smoother and the Jameson had a bit more going on. Here, the sherry version is smoother and the Double Caks has a bit more going on. I preferred the Bushmills in the Irish comparison but this one is a bit more of a toss up. The sherry version is simpler but it's really nice. I appreciate how a sip of the Double Cask evolves from vanilla/woody in the mouth to sherry in the finish. I think this choice depends on your mood.

Whisky Bob signing off.
