---
layout: post
title: Smoke Week - Part 8
date: 2018-02-04
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Islay, Lagavulin 16, Lagavulin Distillers 2017]
---

Smoke is powerful. So powerful that this week goes to 8.

I'm still on travel and enjoyed visiting some new liquor stores. I wanted to find an expression like the Ardbeg Uigeadail but more complex. I was ultimately steered towards the Lagavulin Distiller's Edition (2017 bottling) and picked up a bottle on sale for $99.

It pours a bit darker than the standard 16. On the nose, I immediately get red wine. This is the winiest whisky I've yet encountered. There's smoke but it's a bit more reserved on the back end.

The finish - immediately sweet wine with the smoke creeping up on the back end. When I breathe through my nose with my mouth closed, I get that winy sweetness. I open my mouth and chew and there's the smoke. The sweet finish stays longer than the smoke. The finish is remarkably like the Johnnie Walker Black... and I also feel like there's a bit too much sweetness on the finish here.

Halfway into the dram, I bit into a BBQ sandwich with spicy slaw. The Distiller's pairs extraordinarily well here! The sweetness goes really well with the spicy slaw. The smokiness of the whisky goes really well with the smoked meat. The complexities of the whisky meld with the complexities of the sammy for deliciousness.

Honestly, on its own, this first pouring was a bit of a letdown for the price. However, that pairing was absolutely exquisite! I hope the whisky develops a bit after opening.

Whisky Bob signing off.
