---
layout: post
title: You Spey, I Spey - Part 3
date: 2018-02-14
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Speyside, Glenlivet 12, Glenfiddich 12]
---

Cracking open two more Speyside 50 mL samplers today - Glenlivet 12 and Glenfiddich 12. I get these confused all the time. I poured 15 mLs of each into Glencairns and promptly forgot which was which. This bodes well for the tasting...

Contrary to my usual taste first style, I'm going to grab the tasting notes from the respective websites to see if I can figure out which is which.

### Glenlivet 12

From the [official website](https://www.theglenlivet.com/en-us/the-glenlivet-12-year-old/):

* 40% ABV
* Cask: Traditional and American oak
* Flavor: Delicately balanced with strong pineapple notes
* Colour: Bright, vibrant gold
* Nose: Fruity and summery
* Palate: Well balanced and fruity, with strong pineapple notes
* Finish: Creamy, smooth, with marzipan and fresh hazelnuts
* $5.29/50mL -> $1.59/15mL pour

### Glenfiddich 12

From the [official website](https://www.glenfiddich.com/us/collection/product-collection/core-range/12-year-old/):

* 40% ABV
* Fresh pear, subtle oak
* $5.99/50mL -> $1.80/15mL pour

>With a unique freshness from the same Highland spring water we’ve used since 1887, its distinctive fruitiness comes from the high cut point William Grant always insisted upon.
>Carefully matured in the finest American oak and European oak sherry casks for at least 12 years, it is mellowed in oak marrying tuns to create its sweet and subtle oak flavours.
>Creamy with a long, smooth and mellow finish, our 12 Year Old is the perfect example of Glenfiddich’s unique Speyside style and is widely proclaimed the best dram in the valley.

### My take

I'm trying to pick out the "strong pineapple notes" but can't find them. Both are light and fruity. One has a bit more woodiness and kick on the backend. That one might be the Glenfiddich with the "subtle oak" description. Neither one have a terribly long finish. These seem really interchangeable upon first taste. Maybe a couple more samplings will reveal more differences...

Whisky Bob signing off.
