---
layout: post
title: Sampling Ireland - Part 3
date: 2018-02-09
category: blog
tags: [Irish, Bushmills Original, Jameson]
---

Despite a desire to drink Lagavulin, I'm going to stick it out and continue with my Irish samples. I'm revisiting the 50 mL samples of Bushmills Original and Jameson standard. I prefered the Bushmills on the first sampling - I liked its smoother taste and gingery finish. How do these hold up on second tasting?

I poured both neat into Glencairns. I finished up the Bushmills and have a bit of the Jameson left over to compare with its stablemate Redbreast tomorrow.

### Bushmills Original

* Color: Light apple juice
* Nose: Light and fruity. A bit of alcohol burn.
* Taste: Light and fruity. Thinnish mouth feel.
* Finish: Medium length citrus and ginger-like spice. Nice fruit notes that stick with you.

### Jameson

* Color: Darker fancy apple juice
* Nose: A bit darker fruit and more complex than the Bushmills. Some earthy tones. Like apple juice that's sat out in the sun a bit too long but not necessarily in a bad way.
* Taste: Apples, earth, a bit of alcohol kick. Slightly thicker.
* Finish: More intense flavors than the Bushmills. This seems like a less complex version of the Redbreast 12.

### Conclusion

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tjVzGYZLhvo" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Well, McNulty, I am Protestant, and I favor the Bushmills. While this second round with the Jameson is much better than the first, the lightness of the Bushmills is more of what I'm looking for in this style. I can appreciate why one would prefer the complexity of the Jameson if one were to have to choose... but I'll take the simple sweet here and save the complexity for other styles.

Whiskey Bob signing off.
