---
layout: post
title: Highland Park 12 - Part 7
date: 2018-01-27
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Island, Highland Park 12, Islay, Ardbeg Uigeadail]
---

Wrapping up the week of Highland Park 12 today. Took advantage of a leisurely working around the home to sample a few pours. First up is a small 15 mL pour neat in a Glencairn. I chose this amount to see if I could squeeze out three pours from a 50 mL sampler bottle... it's not quite enough to get a full sense of the whisky. Think I need to go to 25 mL pours in the future. A decent amount of alcohol on the nose. There's some other sort of medicinal scent here I can't quite describe but it's been here every time. Getting a lot of smoke in the body this time. After sitting awhile, get more toffee/carmally notes. Swirl it around to release the alcohol and I get less "dark" and more "bright" flavors for lack of better vocabulary. Finish continues to be drying like a white wine and lasts quite awhile. This continues to be very pleasant. This 15 mL pour cost $0.86 prorated from a $43 750 mL bottle.

Had a chance for a second dram with a late dinner. Let's see how this elixer holds up to an Italian sandwich, pickle and salt & vinegar chips... surprise, surprise, not terribly well! The whisky flavor is muted, leaving behind some alcohol burn and the mouth drying and lingering smoke. A stronger Islay would be a better bet if one wanted a smokey kick with a sammy. This 25 mL pour cost $1.43 prorated from a $43 750 mL bottle.

I've enjoyed HP12 and see why it's the favorite of so many. I've really enjoyed the smoke notes and feel the call back to my first whiskey love - Islay - so next week is smoke week... only I can't wait until tomorrow and opened up something new. One of my local liquor stores carries 50 mL samplers of Ardbeg Uigeadail for $5.99. That's a pretty nice price for a sampler at $120/L (compared to a $73 750 mL bottle that's $96/L). A twist cap off and a $3 25 mL neat pour into a Glencairn later...

It's a shade darker than the HP12. There's peat smoke with some sweetness on the nose. More intense than the HP12, less so than my memory of Laphroaig (we'll get to that next week). First sip is fire. 54.2% ABV will do that to you. It warms my chest. It numbs my mouth. I taste smoke. There's a long ashy campfire finish. The finish seems a bit more subtle than the HP12 - not sure if that's just a byproduct of how much more intense the taste is up front. Second sip - oh wow, this is cough syrup thick. It feels like I'm swigging around my own spit and I'm not sure if that's a good thing. This is the thickest whisky I've tasted to date but I'm sure I'll get used to the thicker texture in the future. More smoke intertwined with sweetness. The flavors intermingle like they belong together. It's all very pleasant but rather mono- or duo-toned. This whisky doesn't have time fore complexity, it's got work to do. It's a high octane semi truck wearing a tutu. Looking forward to comparing it to its sister Islays next week.

Whisky Bob signing off.
