---
layout: post
title: Sampling Ireland - Part 5
date: 2018-02-11
category: blog
tags: [Irish, Tullamore DEW, Redbreast 12]
---

Time to wrap up this sampling of Ireland.

### Tullamore D.E.W.

This was by far my least favorite the first time around. It tasted like feet. I'll be trying it solo first and then later on alongside Redbreast 12.

* Nose: There's an unpleasant earthiness at first that gives way to the Irish "buttery" notes with a nice extra dose of honey. The earthiness grows on me as I sit with this dram. I still find it unpleasant but can just as easily see someone else calling it out as a favorite note.
* Taste: Better than the other day. Less earth than before. More honey, some ginger. Not a ton going on.
* Finish: Fairly short. A little alcohol burn. Some citrusy honey flavors linger. Not bad.

### Compared to Redbreast 12

The Tullamore stood up surprisingly well this time around. It still tastes like dirt, but in a better way. There's a bit too much bitterness on the finish and I'd say it's still probably the least favorite of all sampled. But it's not terrible dirt.

I'm not sure how much else I can say about the Redbreast 12 at this point. It's quintessential Irish with a nice complexity. I pick some some excessive alcohol burn here and there that knocks it down a bit. Overall, this is lovely stuff.

### Conclusion

Here's a map of the Irish expressions I sampled (Hopefully I can revise this soon to include links to blog posts):

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/2/embed?mid=1bDD0xVYA7KYxDUcrU4PSiY6EUk4fVftg" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

* Redbreast 12 - Quintessential Irish butter and honey biscuit. Complex and full of character with maybe a tad too much alcohol burn. **B**
* Bushmill's Original - Butter and honey and ginger. Not complex but smooth. **B-**
* Jamesons - Redbreast without the complexity. **C+**
* Tullamore D.E.W. - Butter and honey and dirt. Not sure if I like the dirt. **C**

Overall, I enjoyed my trip to Ireland but am ready to sample from another region. Next time I'm back around these parts, I hope to try out a few other expressions:

* Green Spot - can't wait to experience that magical "coconut" note
* Connemara - a peated Irish whiskey? I'm in!
* Powers - a competitor at the Bushmills/Jameson/Tullamore level

Where will this magical whiskey tour go next? Tune in tomorrow to find out.

Whiskey Bob signing off.
