---
layout: post
title: Smoke Week - Part 6
date: 2018-02-02
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Scotch Blend, Johnnie Walker Black]
---

Whisky Bob flew cross country today and took the opportunity to revisit an old "smoky" friend in the form of Johnnie Walker Black. JW Black was my go to "fancy" drink in college and I remember it having a bit of a kick. I liked to drink it on the rocks and with Dr. Pepper. Johnnie seems to be looked down upon in some whisky circles - not sure if it's because of its popularity or aggressive marketing. That viewpoint has tainted my own and I'm coming into this not expecting much.

I overpaid at $5 for a 50 mL bottle on my way to the hotel. I pour half the bottle neat into a Glencairn retreived from my suitcase. I take a sniff. Sweetness, alcohol... more sweetness, some spiciness. In the mouth, the liquid is a tad on the thin side. There's a nice sweetness and vanilla oakiness when chewing. Swallowing reveals more fruit like flavors. There's a very long finish. Warmth, wood, vanilla, sweetness. Very pleasant. I don't know if I've just been living in Islay too long but I'm not getting much smoke out of this at all.

[From the JW website:](https://www.johnniewalker.com/en-us/our-whisky/johnnie-walker-labels/black-label/):

> Johnnie Walker Black Label is rich, complex and incredibly well-balanced, full of dark fruits, sweet vanilla and signature smokiness. Blended exclusively from whiskies matured for at least 12 years, it brings together flavors from the four corners of Scotland to create an experience that is complex, deep and rewarding. Johnnie Walker Black Label rolls decadently over the tongue, releasing intense sweet vanillas that give way to orange zest and aromas of spice and raisins. The finish is unbelievably smooth and layered with rich smoke, peat and malt.

That all sounds about right. I was honestly expecting to bash on this whisky but it's really quite lovely. I'd prefer something with a bit more body and a bit more depth of flavor but this tastes quite nice. It's quite sippable.

After reviewing the official spiel, I start detecting some smoke now that I'm looking for it... there's some peat there but much more subdued than the Ardbeg, Laphroiag and Lagavulin. I read somewhere that there's some more Caol Ila in here. I really need to try the Caol Ila on its own to start detecting its profile.

There it is now... a light peat smoke on the back end but it's almost hidden compared to the vanilla/sweet woody notes. There's almost a bit too much sweetness. But mmm... this is good stuff.

Whisky Bob signing off.
