---
layout: post
title: Highland Park 12 - Part 4
date: 2018-01-24
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Island, Highland Park 12, Islay, Lagavulin 16]
---

Pouring Highland Park 12 in a Riedel Vinum whiskey glass today to mix things up. Getting a lot more alcohol burn on the nose and much less sweetness than with the Glencairn glass. The smoke is very forward here. Flavors are about the same with the Vinum as the Glencairn. The Vinum is easier to drink from but I've become so accustomed to the Glencairn after just a couple days that it actually felt a bit strange. Think I prefer the Glencairn overall but will be using both in the coming days and decades.

The smokiness from the HP12 is so different from the Islays... I need a direct comparison so pour some Lagavulin 16 neat into a Glencairn. Awwwwwww yeah baby. This is smoke! Very different than the HP12. More like a camp fire. Salty air, medicinal (is that iodine?). Heavy smokey taste, smoother, wetter finish than the HP12. This is so complex and yet everything seems to be flowing together in harmony. This is so damn good. This is the whisky that made me want to drink more whiskeys. Mmmmm. This feels like being in a small shack in isolation on the Scottish coast. There's a rugged chimney that keeps you warm and heats your food. The fire is life and this scotch is that fire. This is a hard life, a rugged life, yet refined.

I wax poetic and hand the dram to Mrs. Whisky. She sniffs it. "Smells like bowling alley." She takes a sip. "It tastes burnt. It was like my mouth was on fire and then it tasted... it's yucky. I don't like it." She chews on air. "It's gone bad."

Mr. and Mrs. Whisky Bob signing off.
